
@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@command{timeclockj} is a desktop and mobile phone application used
to track time spent on different projects, both personal, business or
leisure. Keeping track of projects means you can produce reports
against them, and tally the hours you've spent over days, weeks and
months and see when you're most active.

The mobile Android version of @command{timeclockj} uses Dropbox
to syncronise files between your mobile and desktop. By doing this, all devices
can access and use the same @command{timeclock} file. Mobile
devices use @emph{push} and @emph{pull} commands to sync their mobile
devices directly with Dropbox.

@command{timeclockj} provides libraries and tools for reading,
viewing and writing @sc{gnu} @command{emacs} mode @command{timeclock} files.
@sc{gnu} @command{emacs} "@dots{is an extensible, customizable text editor}"
@footnote{@url{http://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/}} that contains a mode -
known as @command{timeclock} mode - for clocking-in and -out of projects.
It is this mode for @sc{gnu} @command{emacs} that is the inspiration
for @command{timeclockj}.

Command-line tools are provided, as is a desktop UI that sits in the
operating system tray (sometimes called a Task Bar), and a mobile Android
version. @command{timeclockj} is @i{not} a @command{timeclock} clone - it has different
commands, different options but the end result is the same -
manipulating @command{timeclock} files.

A clock in line starts with an @code{i} character, a space, a date of the format 
@code{yyyy/MM/dd HH:mm:ss}, and an optional string denoting a project. No project
implies the default (no-name) project is being clocked-in. A clock-out line starts
with a @code{o} character, date and time (using the format specified for clock-ins)
with an optional string denoting a description for the clock-out.

Here are some examples of clock lines from a @command{timeclock} file:

@example
i 2010/10/05 13:28:57 Gym
o 2010/10/05 14:57:04
i 2010/10/05 18:29:36 Spanish Course
o 2010/10/05 20:32:14 Verbs, revised shopping
i 2010/10/06 09:15:22
o 2010/10/06 12:09:58
@end example

Line one shows the @emph{Gym} project being clocked-in at almost 1:30pm,
and clocked-out at nearly 3pm (line two). @emph{Spanish Course} begins at almost
6:30pm (line three), and is finished by 8:30pm line four). Finally, on lines
five and six, the next day from 9:15am to 12:09pm, the default (no-name)
project is clocked. In the case of the @emph{Gym} and default project, no description
is giving when clocking-out. With the @emph{Spanish Course} project, the description
@emph{Verbs, revised shopping} is given.
